Story Recapped here. Today I'm going to explain
a science fiction action film called Ghost in the
Shell. Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care In
the near future, there is only a thin line between
human and machine. Technological advancements
allow humans to enhance themselves with cybernetic
parts. In what seems to be an emergency room,
a medical team brings in an injured woman.
Mira Killian, a woman in the accident, is reborn
as a cyborg, but her brain is still intact.
She gains consciousness after the sheet is
uncovered. She has difficulty breathing after
the procedure and is confused about where she
is or what is happening. She meets her designer,
Dr Ouelet, who monitors her condition. She reveals
to Mira that she is the sole survivor of a refugee
boat attacked by rebels who killed her parents.
She also says that Mira's body was beyond repair,
leaving her no choice but to replace it with
a synthetic shell. Mira twitches as she feels
restrained in the bed. Dr Ouelet speaks to Hanka
Robotics CEO Cutter about the strengths and
abilities that Mira's new body possesses. They
call her "the first of her kind". Cutter wants
to place Mira in Section 9, an anti-terrorism
division, but Dr Ouelet feels she is not ready
for such a thing. A year later, in a futuristic
cyber world, Mira overlooks the great cityscape.
She is now known as "The Major". She communicates
with Section 9 Chief Daisuke Aramaki, from who she
receives orders. She is listening to a meeting
between Hanka representative Dr Osmond and an
African Ambassador. Mira informs Aramaki that
someone is scanning data traffic as shown in her
device. She traces where the transmission is from,
accessing various surveillances from properties
around the area. They find out that danger is
around the African Ambassador and Dr Osmond.
During the business conference, a group of men
opens fire. The group of geisha robots start
to attack people in the conference room. This
urges Mira to take action despite Aramaki not
giving orders. She jumps from the building
and goes invisible to save the essential
officials in the conference. The men shoot
recklessly at the people in the room as one
of the geisha robots extracts information
from Dr Osmond's neck before killing him.
Out of nowhere, the armed men start falling to
the ground after shots fire. They look around,
but Mira is invisible.The geisha robot drags
Dr Osmond around the room while the data is
stored in her system. Mira emerges from a glass
window and finishes off the remaining attackers.
Her skills and movements are much more
advanced compared to the ones in the room.
She shoots the geisha robot; before finishing it
off, it tells her, "Cooperate with Hanka Robotics
and be destroyed." The phrase made an impact on
Mira, and it confuses her. The other operative,
Batou, arrives at the scene and notices Mira's
injury on her wrist. She looks at it and sees
a resemblance with the geisha robot. She walks
away after Batou says that it is not the same.
Mira becomes restless that night as it bothers
her that she only remembers so little from her
upbringing. She hallucinates and sees glitches out
of nowhere, which she thinks are fragments of her
past. She makes her way outside after injecting
a medication provided by the company. She walks
through crowded streets until she gets to the
department of defence section 9 headquarters.
Mira, Togusa, Batou, and Carlos discuss the
attack in a room using a dimensional image of
the group of men. While concluding the source,
Aramaki arrives, and they all stand still.
Togusa, another operative, reports that three more
scientists from Hanka were slain on the night of
the attack in the company's central laboratory.
All of the victims have a sign of cerebral
hacking. Just like Dr Osmund, they were senior
figures. At the crime scenes, the same messages
were left by someone who identifies himself as
Kuze. The statements are the same as what Mira
heard from the geisha robot. Aramaki orders Togusa
and Ladriya to inform Cutter of the situation,
while Mira and Batou find out what is recovered
from the geisha. Aramaki privately talks to Mira
about disobeying his orders when she was in the
building. She defends herself by saying that more
would have died without her. He responds by saying
that she is his responsibility and that she is
more than just a weapon built to hunt down rebels.
Aramaki reminds Mira that she has a soul—a ghost.
Mira and Batou stroll through the streets; he buys
a piece of meat and feeds it to stray dogs, which
he is deeply fond of. Batou asks Mira about her
parents in the car and tells him that her parents
died as refugees for trying to get into the
country. The boat sunk in the harbour before they
arrived as rebels attacked it. She struggles with
recalling her memories. She sees another glitch
before they arrive at the headquarters. Mira meets
with Dr Ouelet frequently to repair her body when
it encounters damages. She consults her Dr that
she sees flashes more than usual as of the moment.
The doctor dismisses her hallucinations as
glitches caused by her injuries. But Dr Ouelet
shows empathy and care toward Mira. The same day,
Mira and Batou meet with Dr Dahlin, dissecting the
geisha robot's body. She informs the duo that the
hardware of the robot is vandalized and ripped up.
Mira says she needs to do a deep dive into the
geisha robots AI to get more information about
the whereabouts of the culprit. Meaning, she
will go inside its brain. Dr Dahlin warns her
about being trapped in malware. Batou backs her
claim by saying that her mind might be exposed
to whoever orchestrated the attack and be “open".
This can mean that Kuze might be able to control
her. She disregards their warnings and continues
to deep-dive into the robot's memory. Batou helps
her get ready as they start the procedure.
Mira gives consent to the doctor in terms of
downloading her data. In a dream-like setting, she
falls, landing on the robot's memory. She finds
herself walking through a club with distorted
images of several people that are slowly fading.
She follows a path and sees Kuze. She feels
restrained, causing her to twitch on the surface.
Multiple bodies drag her down, and Dr Dahlin
struggles to retrieve her. She gains consciousness
and says that she knows where to find Kuze.
Mira and Batou go to a nightclub with
Ladriya for backup. She observes the club upon
entering and looks for any unusual happenings.
Two men lead her into a private room. She and
Batou can still communicate without talking,
using an advanced system that uses telepathy;
however, her signal suddenly gets blocked.
The men in the room electrocute and force
her to dance for them. She is all on her own,
as Ladriya and Batou cannot communicate with
her. The tension in the club rises as a man
points a gun at Batou at the bar. Mira fights
back and knocks down the men in the room. Batou
fires multiple shots, but he manages to shoot
the attackers. Mira heads to the backroom;
it is dark and dingy. She kicks open a door and
sees an image of the burning hut. Kuze emerges
from the ashes and says the phrase "Cooperate
with Hanka Robotics and be destroyed" again.
Mira sees several bombs attached to the walls;
it explodes, leaving her and Batou unconscious.
While Dr Ouelet enhances her physical injuries,
she shares that Kuze seemed like he was waiting
for her arrival. She also admits that her
glitches are getting worse by the day. The
doctor grows worrisome about Mira's well-being.
She has been inside the same Shell as Kuze, which
might be the reason for her hallucinations. Batou
receives cybernetic eyes to replace his damaged
ones after the shootout. Mira visits him as he
shows her his new set of eyes. He reminds her to
feed the dogs because he fears that the strays
would be terrified of his unique appearance.
Mira happily does as he says. Meanwhile,
Cutter meets with Aramaki with anger over
Mira doing the deep-dive, saying that she is an
excellent asset to his company. Aramaki warns
Cutter who he is threatening since Aramaki
answers to the Prime Minister and not Hanka.
Mira heads to the city's red-light district and
asks a woman if she is human. In a private room,
she examines her by touching her face and asking
what it feels like. She is very much interested in
the concept of humanity and their feelings. Kuze
makes his way to Dr Dahlin's lab; before killing
her, he rips her eyes out. The following day, Mira
and Batou receive an incoming call from the car.
Someone informs them that Dr Dahlin dies because
of another attack. They see her lifeless body with
eyes plucked out. Mira pulls a drive out
of Dahlin's hand, which contains names of
other Hanka associates, including Dr Ouelet,
who is most likely the next target of Kuze.
That day, Kuze controls two sanitation workers to
ram their truck into Dr Ouelet's. The collision is
intense, causing her car, along with the driver
and Ladriya, injuries. As their car is smashed
in the street, one of the sanitation workers shoot
the driver and points the gun at the doctor, still
under Kuze's influence. Just in time, Mira and
a squad of soldiers arrive to rescue the doctor.
The shootout lasts for a while. They manage
to bring down one of the sanitation workers.
Mira and her partners arrive in time to shoot back
at the men. She chases after one man, Lee, who
can turn invisible. He runs away from Mira,
ending up in a body of water. She fights him
while invisible, which is a struggle for
Lee. She recklessly hurts and throws him
around. Mira desperately extracts information
about Kuze until Batou shows up and stops her,
saying that they need him alive. The section
9 team imprisons him in a glass cage as he is
being interrogated. He informs Section 9 that
he was on his way to pick up his daughter.
Mira shows him a photo of what he sees as his
daughter but is really a picture of himself.
They ask him more questions, and his memory starts
to feel clouded. They conclude that Kuze managed
to plant fake memories in Lee's head. In a matter
of seconds, Lee's body language begins to shifts.
He displays a menacing smile; the team realizes
that Kuze is in his head, again. Mira enters the
enclosure to communicate with Kuze. He speaks
through Lee to threaten Section 9 before making
Lee jump to hang himself with the cable around
his neck. Togusa manages to trace Kuze. Mira
him connected to a network with other humanoid
cyborg bodies. The team takes off and gets ready
to uncover the mystery of Kuze's real personality.
They get inside the premises successfully. Several
citizens vacate the area that is filled with
illegal activities. Another shootout happens,
which sparks up instant chaos. Mira finds Kuze as
he is connected to a network with other humanoid
cyborg bodies. They form a circle and seem to
form one common source of thoughts. Kuze is using
human minds to create a network of his own. This
makes him powerful as he can control his subjects.
She investigates the place even more and
spots the burning hut image once again.
A group of men attack her from behind and
electrocute her endlessly, causing her to
fall to the ground. Kuze walks from a dark
spot and finally comes face to face with Mira.
He connects her to his network, and reveals
himself and shows her his true form. Kuze stutters
as he talks. He admits that he was a test subject
of Hanka's but considered a failure and a freak
on his deformed outcome. Kuze says that Hanka took
control of their lives instead of saving them.
He then grabs a partial layer of Mira's exterior
to look at it closely and puts it back. She calls
him a bad person, and he becomes more agitated,
threatening her even more. He disconnects her from
the system and shoots him. He remains resilient.
Mira sees a tattoo on his chest of the burning
hut, like in her hallucination, and asks him
what it is about. Both of them seem to see the
same image over and over again. Kuze tells her not
to take the medication that Hanka supplies for her
because it suppresses her memories. According to
him, the Shell belongs to them, but not the ghost.
His words make an impact on Mira. That night,
Mira confronts Dr Ouelet over her epiphany.
She asks about how many fell victim to their
experiments. She asks about where her body
came from. Dr Ouelet reveals that they gave
her false memories to build her personality
and design what would motivate her to fight. Her
body did not come from a boat, and her parents
did not die the way she believed for years.
Mira is their first successful experiment. She
went off the grid to run away from the team. She
takes a swim to be at peace with her thoughts.
Upon returning to the boat, Batou is there to
accompany her. She gets worried that one day he
might receive an order to terminate her, but he
assures her that none of that will ever happen.
She asks him to take her back to Kuze's
network. Cutter orders Dr Ouelet to get rid
of Mira on account of her being a threat to the
company. She informs him that Mira knows enough
information to take defiance. The team tracks her
location and brings her back to the headquarters.
Mira gets another episode of hallucinations of
experiments like her. As she lies sedated, Cutter
wants her to shut down permanently. Dr Ouelet
opposes, saying that she can just reprogram Mira.
However, Cutter stands by his decision
and is firm about getting rid of Mira.
He hands a deadly substance that the doctor
must inject on her for deletion of her data.
As Mira undergoes the process, Dr Ouelet gives her
an address instead to find answers for herself.
Ouelet allows Mira to escape by unbuckling her
from the bed. Before she lets herself get left
behind in the lab, she hands a compilation of
Mira's memories so she can recall her past.
Mira makes her way out of the premises by fighting
several members of the security team. She seems to
gain more strength despite the process. Cutter
shoots and kills Ouelet from the glass division
in revenge. Mira strolls through the city on a
bike to make her way to learn about her past.
Meanwhile, Cutter reports to Aramaki that Mira
killed Dr Ouelet and that she must be terminated
because she is a danger to them and the company.
This angers Batou and asks for Armaki's verdict.
He responds by handing over a gun. Mira follows
the address; it reveals to be where she used to
live in the past. The cat that she constantly
sees in her hallucinations comes to her.
The door opens and her mother, which she
has not found out yet, welcomes her inside.
Mira observes the house closely and feels a sense
of belonging inside the home as if everything she
sees is familiar. According to her mother, she
had a daughter who ran away and was killed.
She only found out about her daughter's
death after the administration gave her
the ashes and made her believe that Motoko
Kusanagi, her daughter, took her own life.
However, she doubts this because she knows that
her daughter was happy and contented with living
simply. Her mother does sense a familiar look in
Mira's eyes when she looks at her and says that
she reminds her of Motoko. Mira leaves, confused
with her emotions. She reconnects with Aramaki to
explain that she is an experiment and that Kuze is
just like her. Aramaki informs her that Dr Ouelet
is dead. Mira stops for a moment and grieves for
her death. He also lets her know that Cutter says
she killed her, though they both know the truth.
They both know that Cutter is eavesdropping on
their conversation, but they allow this to happen
as they plan their next move. Aramaki gets in the
car in the pouring rain and instructs the team to
switch to mind communications. After relaying the
message, men shoot at Aramaki's car; he pretends
to be hit. As they get closer, he fights back
and survives the attack. He manages to bring
down the three men with ease and composure.
Cutter sends his men to kill Section 9 members,
but Batou and Togusa kill their attackers as well.
Mira makes her way to meet with Kuze at a hideout,
which resembles the burning hut's structure.
She recalls a memory that seems to be traumatic as
she feels a sense of familiarity with the place.
A flashback reveals that she was actually
abducted from that specific place. They
finally piece together fragments of their memory
and wholly remember what happened that night.
They remember that their real names were Hideo
and Motoko. They were initially fighting against
companies that turn humans into cyborgs.
All of a sudden, an explosion happens,
leaving both of them unconscious. A spider tank
appears; it attacks Mira under Cutter's control.
The spider tank hits Kuze and severely damages
himIt aims and shoots at her relentlessly,
but she manages to go to another level and find
the perfect spot to bring it down. The spider tank
approaches Kuze; ready to shoot him, Mira draws
fire at it again. It acquires target at her again
and sends a big explosive her way. The building
collapses totally, leaving it in flames. In the
meantime, the spider tank grabs Kuze by the head
and lifts him into the air. Cutter now thinks that
he is undefeated and calls him a freak. Out of the
ashes, Mira emerges invisible at first until she
steps on the spider tank, to destroy it. She uses
all her strength to ruin the machine, even causing
damage to her Shell and ripping her arm off. She
tirelessly destroys it until it finally explodes,
which causes injury to both of them. Kuze
offers to merge his ghost with her, saying
that he will always be there for her no matter
what. She refuses, because according to her,
this is where she belongs, and this place is her
true nature. Moments after, Cutter's men from the
overhead aircraft aim a shot at Kuze, instantly
killing him. Mira shouts in agony and sadness.
Without her knowledge, Aramaki sends his own
man, Saito, to take down the sniper to save Mira.
The aircraft crashes into the ground completely.
As they lay on the ground, Batou approaches them
and recovers Mira, who is still alive. He is in
awe after seeing her still surviving despite the
attacks. He asks Mira what her true name is, and
she responds by saying "Motoko". Batou helps her
get up and recovers her strength. Aramaki then
confronts Cutter after having spoken to the Prime
Minister about tagging him as a criminal. Cutter
is charged with multiple crimes he committed
against the state including Dr Ouelet’s death.
Aramaki contacts Mira through mind communication
and gets her consent to execute Cutter. He shoots
Cutter three times as he falls into his own pool.
Mira sees her own grave for the first time. Her
mother accompanies her, and they are happily
reunited. She tells her mother that she does
not need to come to the cemetery anymore. Life
continues in the futuristic city. Aramaki still
gives the orders, the team assembles again,
Operations with section 9 continue,
and Mira is ready for her next mission.